>> Kyle Simpson: I've used these terms,
expressions and
statements now several times.
Let's make sure we're very clear about
what an expression or a statement is.
Just like in the English language,
an expression is like a phrase,
like if you say the sentence,
I am a friend who likes to play ping pong.
The phrase who likes to play ping
pong is not a whole sentence.
It's just a part of a sentence.
It's a phrase,
it's a fragment if you will.
In programming speak,
we'd called that an expression.
And then we take the entire thing from
the very beginning to the final period or
question mark.
And we call that whole thing a sentence,
and in programming we
call that a statement.
A lot of times, there's not a big
distinction between expressions and
statements.
But sometimes it is kind of an important
deal to keep them separate.
So in line one, we have a statement
that begins with this var keyword,
which by the way, that's how we tell it,
I wanna make a variable.
And then it ends like a period
in an English sentence.
It ends with the semicolon.
So that's a whole statement,
it's a whole sentence that is saying
something that we want to have happen.
But there are parts to it and in
particular, one of the parts is that age
equals 39 part, that's what we
call an assignment expression.
So we can think of that as a phrase or
an expression inside of the whole
thing which is the statement.
And on line three we see an even
more complex sort of statement.
Starts with the age at the beginning,
ends with the semicolon at the end.
Almost all statements
will end with a semicolon
unless you're dealing with a coding
style which likes to leave those off.
It'd be kind of like if you
were reading Shakespeare and
he had no punctuation in it.
You might get a little confused
where the sentences are.
So some people like to do that, but most
people like to put the semicolon there.
So that's where you know it's
at the end of the sentence,
it's at the end of the statement.
But what are the expressions here?
It turns out that there's several,
more than you might have realized,
in terms of counting things.
So let's look at it.
The number 2 on the right-hand side,
that is an expression.
It happens to be called
a literal expression.
Remember we have those primitive values?
Those are called literals, so
the number 2 is an expression.
And the variable age to the very left of
it, that's also an expression, cuz we
need to go get whatever's in it, in this
case the 39, and do something with it.
So we have two expressions already, and
then you'll notice those parenthesis.
Remember, I was just
talking about grouping.
Well, we've got a set of parenthesis
wrapped around age times 2,
times being the multiplication operator,
that little asterisk there.
That age times 2 with the parenthesis
around it, that's another expression, so
now we have three expressions.
And then there's an expression for the
literal 1, so we have a fourth expression.
And then we have the expression,
1 plus, and
then whatever age times 2 was,
and so that's a fifth expression.
And then we have the age equals
whatever has been computed there,
that's a sixth expression.
All six of those expressions
are part of this one
single sentence statement that
we call a programming statement.
Now again, it's not always that
important that you like go and
count all of the expressions.
But it's at least important that you be
aware of the idea that a single statement
is often built up with lots
of individual expressions.
All right, let's try out those
expressions and statements,
and make sure we see how
they're being evaluated.
If I run this code,
you'll see that it's giving us age 79.
If I were to take that specific expression
and just ask what was age times 2.
Let me comment that out for
a minute, if I ran age times 2,
you're gonna notice that it was 78.
And then that's when we
add it to one to get 79.
And if I say age times 3, now of course
we're gonna get a different age outputted.